Add x_nucleo_cca02m1 microphone shield (#17140)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: samples/shields/x_nucleo_cca02m1/README.rst

.. _x-nucleo-cca02m1-sample:

X-NUCLEO-CCA02M1: Digital MEMS microphones SHIELD for STM32 Nucleo
##################################################################

Overview
********
This sample enables the two digital MEMS microphones on X-NUCLEO-CCA02M1
shields

This sample provides an example of how to acquire audio through

> the two digital MEMS microphones on X-NUCLEO-CCA02M1 sheild.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the two digital MEMS microphones on X-NUCLEO-CCA02M1 shield.
```

Author: ooops. thx!

The microphone generates a PDM stream which is acquired through I2S.
The PDM stream is then converted to PCM using the OpenPDMFilter external
library.

Requirements
************

This sample communicates over I2C with the X-NUCLEO-CCA02M1 shield
stacked on a board with an Arduino connector. The board's I2C must be
configured for the I2C Arduino connector (both for pin muxing
and device tree). See for example the :ref:`nucleo_f411re_board` board
source code:

- :zephyr_file:`boards/arm/nucleo_f411re/nucleo_f411re.dts`
- :zephyr_file:`boards/arm/nucleo_f411re/pinmux.c`

References
**********

- X-NUCLEO-CCA02M1: https://www.st.com/en/ecosystems/x-nucleo-cca02m1.html

Building and Running
********************

This sample runs with X-NUCLEO-CCA02M1 stacked on any board with a matching
Arduino connector. For this example, we use a :ref:`nucleo_f411re_board` board.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/shields/x_nucleo_cca02m1
   :board: nucleo_f411re
   :goals: build
   :compact:

Sample Output
=============

> The example acquires 1s of audio and prints out the PCM stream on COM port.

Reviewer: The would read better spelled out:
```suggestion
The example acquires one second of audio and prints out the PCM stream on COM port.
```

Author: ack

The acquisition starts immediately after the reset button is pressed.

The characteristics of the PCM audio are hardcoded in the example:

- 16KHz sample rate
- 16 bits per sample
- 2 channel (stereo)

One second of acquisition at a 2 channels 16KHz sampling rate yields 32,000 16-bit samples.
The microphone PDM requested clock should lead the MP34DT05 driver to select an
oversampling/decimation factor to result in approximately a 2MHz bit clock.

> See pcm and pdm configuration in file :zephyr_file:`samples/shields/x_nucleo_cca02m1/src/main.c`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See PCM and PDM configuration in file :zephyr_file:`samples/shields/x_nucleo_cca02m1/src/main.c`.
```

Author: Acronyms always upper case, right?
ok, thx.

.. note:: It is possible to change the AUDIO_FREQ to 32000 acquiring only 500 ms.

At the end of the acquisition the PCM data will be printed on the terminal

> emulator in either binary or ASCII format. The output is controlled by

Reviewer: This would read better as:
```
The output is controlled by the
:c:macro:`PCM_OUTPUT_IN_ASCII` macro, off by default, in
:zephyr_file:`samples/shields/x_nucleo_cca02m1/src/main.c`.
```

Author: ack

following macro, off by default, in :zephyr_file:`samples/shields/x_nucleo_cca02m1/src/main.c`:

* :c:macro:`PCM_OUTPUT_IN_ASCII`

Binary PCM Output
-----------------

> The nucleo F411RE board presents itself as USB CDC class to host, which will so use the

Reviewer: Let's change this to:
```
The Nucleo F411RE board presents itself to the host
as a USB CDC class, and will use ``/dev/ttyACM0``
device for communication. The ``/dev/ttyACM0`` port
must be configured in raw mode to avoid having
special characters (such as :kbd:`CNTL-Z` or kbd:`CNTL-D`)
processed or 'cooked' out.
```

Author: it sounds better, ok.

avoid having characters 'cooked' out.

.. code-block:: console

   stty -F /dev/ttyACM0 115200 raw
   cat /dev/ttyACM0 > /tmp/sound.raw

.. note:: In case the character 0x0a is interpreted as NL and an 0x0d (CR) is added,
   you may need to remove it::

      dos2unix -f /tmp/sound.raw

ASCII PCM Output
----------------

It is also possible to recompile and to have PCM output in ASCII, which needs
to be converted to binary later on. The output format is the following:

.. code-block:: console

    -- start
    0xfbe0,
    0xfbf0,
    0xfc0c,
    0xfc24,
    0xfc3c,
    0xfc4c,
    0xfc68,
    0xfc48,

    [...]

    0xfb98,
    0xfb98,
    0xfbb8,
    0xfbac,
    0xfbc4,
    0xfbe8,
    0xfbf4,
    -- end

Play PCM Audio
--------------

Now that we have a binary PCM file (say sound.raw), you can use,
for example, the audacity open source editor/player to load and play it.

Use the 'Import->Raw Data' menu to load the sound.raw file as
signed 16 bit PCM, Little Endian, stereo format @16KHz:

.. image:: img/audio_import.png
     :width: 266px
     :height: 287px
     :align: center
     :alt: audio_import

> After file is imported you can analyze and play the 1s audio file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the file is imported you can analyze and play the one second audio file:
```

Author: ack
